And what that basically does is that it londers the
transfection as an idea and as a methodology
through this false pandemic and comes out on the other end
as a rushed but perfect outcome.
And it is frustrating to me now in some ways
how many people are picking up on this idea so late.
When I think the first time that I presented the idea
that they were gonna do a bait and switch
with the spike protein or the LNP
or the RNA being impure already in the beginning of 2021
when these ideas were first presented as problems
especially the toxicity of the spike.
It hit me almost immediately that there were too many people
in this consensus that we're sure that the spike protein
of the virus was dangerous.
The spike protein of the virus was manipulated.
But then when they used the spike protein in the shot
most of these people didn't have the immediate
well what the hell are they doing that for.
And in fact for a very long time many of these people
continue to focus on the spike of the virus
rather than the spike of the transfections
and you can look back and you can see them all do it.
So they can go on their streams
and they can go on their podcasts now
and say that that's not what happened
but the problem is is that there's a whole internet
full of videos of these morons
and the exact things that they said.
And that's the part that's kind of getting me angry
and why those words sometimes come out.
I have to really center myself to think about
how despicable it is that these people
have absolutely spectacularly committed
to keeping some of these lies intact.
For their comfort, for their fame, for fortune, it's awful.
But there is no question that that's what's going on right now.
The novel virus narrative is under preservation
by these people and a virus narrative
about a bio-weapon being released
is preserving the narrative.
A discussion of gain of function is preserving the narrative.
And a complete absence of the discussion
of where the excess deaths actually came from
is a complete preservation of the narrative.
And almost every one of these people is guilty of that.
And that's what I'm trying to sort out with this map.
I've got a lot of people on here,
I don't even clue down here, like John Cullen
and people that we just can on the outset discard.
You know, I'm not gonna put Adam Gardner on here
or something like that.
These people that were posers already in 2020,
obviously like the Berenson guy.
Why would I even put him on this map?
He revealed himself has extremely manufactured construct already.
They revealed him as that in the beginning of the pandemic
by censoring him off Twitter
and then letting him sue Twitter.
I mean, this was all as much publicity
as anyone could hope to have.
Every one of these examples of censorship
that anybody ever heard of,
like Robert Malone's censorship ended up in what?
Two more apps being populated,
telegram and GAB
and a whole bunch of people,
including Brett Weinstein going over to those platforms
at the same time that Robert Malone did
under the pretense that censorship isn't cool.
This was all behavior designed to drive the crowds around,
to move the sheep into different paddocks
and to see who would follow who were.
And this game has been going on
from the very, very beginning on social media
to try and sort out who we were
and who the problems were.
And that's how they found me so early.
That's why so many people have shown up wherever I am
or go in places.
Serendipitously, everybody wanted to go
to the CHD conference all of a sudden
once they found out Jay was going.
So many people didn't even register for the conference,
but suddenly when they found out Jay was going,
they had to be there.
It was kind of pathetic, actually.
In retrospect, I should have seen it very clearly.
So I'm still fighting that, but, you know, whatever.
We're going to work on that a little less often now
and adding people to that regularly is still,
I think, really important.
But remember, the idea is,
is they're trying to make you feel like you're processing,
you're experiencing this,
and it's going by so fast
and there are so many smart people involved
that you don't need to concern yourself with it.
I mean, why would you get all up in arms
if Steve Kirsch and Robert Malone
are working on your behalf, right?
So the last couple of days we've been focused
on these two companies, Epivax and Absolera,
and we got there because of Peter Collis
and a recommendation by no one other than Robert Malone.
Robert Malone has been associated directly
and indirectly with many of these companies
based in Canada in Vancouver.
And many of these companies seem to be entangled
in a AI machine learning type software stack
that is designed to bypass
or to reinvigorate the antibody patent paradox.
Now, it is not by myself that I did this.
It's a lot of work.
Most of the work done by Mark Koolack,
who found a lot of these companies,
did a lot of leg work on archiving all of the data from them
and all of the information about them
so that we can compare them across pages.
And so I think we've discovered something here
that's worth talking about because of the long-standing relationship
between Moderna, Absolular, and Epivax.
All of these people, especially, I think, Annie DeGroote,
they're all interesting people that are probably underrated.
Robert Malone, also, in his connections with these people,
I think it's a pretty spot-on observation
to think that George Webb, Boston Consulting,
Pfizer, and Robert Malone are all kind of one show
with Veritas and making us think that this kind of thing.
And of course, the future is personalized medicine.
And so we're being distracted actively by these people.
We're being made to ask the wrong questions.
That's their main job.
And it's taken me a long time to figure out,
or think I'm close to figuring out what it is their job is.
I think because it's so flexible,
their job is to make you ask the wrong question
that if you won't ask that question,
they can try and make you ask that one
or put another shiny object in front of you for you to chase.
And that's why they keep coming back.
That's why you can't ever get rid of them,
because if the last story didn't catch your attention,
and it wasn't getting enough clicks,
well, I got another one for you now.
And that's how you can almost see
how Robert Malone's evolution has occurred.
You know, little bits and pieces here,
and he only gives you as much as you need to keep you moving along.
And a lot of these people play that game.
And the reason why they're playing that game
is because there is a time point we're at
where we basically need the my kids age,
the teenagers, we need to get them on board
with the idea that there is a pandemic potential everywhere,
and therefore, in order to protect you from it,
we need vaccines, we need digital medical records,
and we need to keep track of who's vaccinated.
Otherwise, the potential for pandemics is just too great.
And the real hidden message here
is that they want to collect as much medical data
and combine it with genotypic and phenotypic data
as they possibly can.
So that someday, in the near or far future,
they can use AI to crack the human genome.
That's the joke.
They tell everybody that's the story they tell at the dinner table
after these big conferences.
When they take you to the secret meeting,
that's what they tell you we're really up to.
And so it's fine if the masses think
we're trying to get rid of them,
because we are trying to get rid of some of them,
we don't need the adults.
There's not enough time for us
to collect anything meaningful for them,
what we really need are babies.
And that's the literal truth.
They need to convince the next generation
of parents that surrendering their kids
genetic and medical data, it was normal,
is part of what you owe to society as a parent.
I can guarantee you 100%
that that's where this is going.
And they're not trying to convince me, I got kids.
They're not trying to convince you, you got kids,
and you don't know exactly what your responsibilities are
for them and to them.
But they're trying slowly
to change how my son will think about his kids
because it's my son's kids they want.
And if you don't see
that this is at least a generation ahead
of what they're trying to get to, so 20 years from now,
then you're not looking far enough ahead.
That's how this game is played.
It's a multi-generational game
for all the marbles.
It's not for 10 years from now.
And although the election next year is important,
their plans don't hinge on it.
Because they're flexible.
They can always bring something else.
And so the point is is that we've got a few years
for everybody to learn the biology well enough
to declare their freedom.
Or at some point they're just going to continue
to push the physical manifestation
of public health.
They can keep releasing clones.
They can keep making people sick.
They can keep poisoning people
and blaming it on mother nature.
That is not a problem.
And if they have to, they will.
So I thought it would be really important
as we're trying to track down
this long-term timeline
and we're trying to see the people in it.
I thought it would be really instructive
for you to see this video,
which was just released today
by the Huberman lab.
Now I'm no fear familiar with the Huberman lab,
but he's a neurobiologist at Stanford.
And if you watch his YouTube about the brain
and about motivation
and about dopamine
and about vision,
he is one of the sharpest knives in the drawer.
And I would dare to say
that he's another one of these people
that I'm in his field
and I would humbly submit
that that guy is a beast.
So I would love to have a conversation with him.
I'd love to talk to him about immunology.
It wouldn't surprise me
if he knew about as much about immunology as I do.
He's a very, very bright guy.
But what I want you to see here
is how a guy who works at Stanford
has ten year at Stanford
and he's a baller.
This guy is a beast.
He's super, super on top of the literature.
He's really in front
of the main theories of neuroscience
and I look up to him with the greatest respect
with regard to that field.
And as a successful academic,
I mean, you know,
he's as good as they get, I guess.
I mean, he's not some Nobel prize dude.
I mean, he's a solid Stanford professor.
Let me say it like that, okay?
What I want you to see here
is that Dr. Priscilla Chan
and Mark Zuckerberg
are two rich people
who do not defer to him
as either smart
or accomplished
but rather defer to him
as an interviewer
or a podcaster.
He might as well be
me coming in there and saying
hi, I'm a guy who works out of his garage
and I'd like to talk to you.
Tell us what you're going to do.
And they tell him
about their plan
to cure
all human diseases.
Just want you to let that settle in.
Android boy
who says we're going to
grill some meats.
If you've never seen that Facebook video
of him talking about smoking some meat
in his backyard
with his friends,
please Google that
and realize what we're dealing with here.
This is a construct.
This is some
weird dude.
I don't know what to tell you what he is
but he's not just a guy with a company
and that's not just his wife
and you will see it
as they talk.
We are being ruled by these people.
These unelected
egomaniacs
and I'm not talking about
Huberman. I'm talking about these two
and he went to their house
so that's submission.
Okay.
I'm not saying that Huberman is submissive
but I'm telling him
if you're listening
Mr. Dr. Huberman
that's what you've done.
You submitted to them
and they show they act like you're
submitting to them.
The arrogance
that Priscilla Chan speaks
with here as somebody who's almost
never been on camera in America
she speaks as though she's already
president or something
and remember what they're talking about.
They're talking about the future of health
and technology and curing all
human diseases.
This is some serious
serious talk.
By the way, I think this is what happened
thanks to Allison for this link.
I think I had a vocal hemorrhage
so I had something
there's a little thin layer of
fibrous tissue that surrounds
the outside of your vocal cords
and if you abuse your vocal cords
you can bleed there and then that will
fill up with blood and I think what happened
actually is that happened a
long time ago
and it got worse and worse.
To the point it was like a big bubble
or something because it was blocking
my sleep and blocking my breathing
when I was playing basketball and it felt
like a bubble or a thump in my throat
and so the amount of blood that came out
not to be graphic or anything like that but
it was a lot more blood than I'm seeing in this picture
I mean it had to have been
I don't know what way it was a quantity
though you know so
whatever happened I'm sure
needs a chance to heal
and most of these hemorrhages apparently
will heal with immediate voice rest
and that means limited or entirely
suspended for several days
which I haven't done
so I still may have to do that
but I'm not talking usually
so I sit here all the time
by myself
but I was well never am I going to say that
here we go
these guys are crazy
it's just nuts
I can't even believe it
I'm going to put myself a little
smaller
please
it's extraordinary
I don't know how long we're going to watch it
we're not going to watch the whole thing
it's like two hours long so I'm not going to watch it
what I really want you to do
is the language that they're using
and the lack of depth
that they describe the concepts
let me remember what we're saying here
they're talking to a
Stanford neurobiologist
who podcasts and communicates
about science as his part-time fun job
and so
he's a
in-depth interviewer
you can understand things right
and
to make the claim that you're going to cure all diseases
by collecting data
Huberman's the kind of guy
who could in theory demand
a better explanation
so let's hold him to account as well
as Huberman calling out
the BS that he's hearing or not
and how much BS are we hearing
I'll try to take some notes
but I'll probably just interrupt
too
anyway let me see
maybe I'm just gonna speed it up just
a tad okay not a lot just a tad
Welcome to the Huberman Lab Podcast
where we discuss science
and science-based tools for everyday life
I'm Andrew Huberman
and I'm a professor of neurobiology
and ophthalmology at Stanford School of Medicine
My guest today are Mark Zuckerberg
and Dr. Priscilla Chan
Mark Zuckerberg, as everybody knows
founded the company Facebook
is now the CEO of Meta
which includes Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp
and other technology platforms
Dr. Priscilla Chan graduated from Harvard
and went on to do her medical degree
at the University of California San Francisco
Mark Zuckerberg and Dr. Priscilla Chan
are married and the co-founders
of the CZI or Chan Zuckerberg Initiative
a philanthropic organization
whose stated goal is to cure all human diseases
The Chan Zuckerberg Initiative is accomplishing that
by providing critical funding
not available elsewhere
as well as a novel framework
functioning of cells
cataloging all the different human cell types
as well as providing AI or artificial intelligence platforms
to mine all of that data
to discover new pathways and cures
for all human diseases
The first hour of today's discussion
is held with both Dr. Priscilla Chan
and Mark Zuckerberg
during which we discuss the CZI
I mean think about what he just said there
I kind of agree with Jason M
what a cartoon goal
basically he says
we're going to collect so much data
that will understand it
that's kind of like saying
we're going to measure the weather
in so many places around the world
and feed it into a computer
if we measure it in enough places
we're going to know what the weather is forever
it's a similar statement
we're going to collect so much weather data
that we're going to understand how storms work
and we're going to be able to predict the weather better than ever
except you're talking about a biological
pattern integrity
that's somehow governed by genetics
but we don't know how
and you're going to figure it out
by collecting a bunch of data
and that sounds great
but the way that he's selling it
and the way that he's accepting it
I agree he's almost got to be a seller
like this is
you're going to see it
I'll get to let him talk
because at least he's got to give an introduction
but it's brutal
it really means to try and cure all human diseases
we talk about the motivational backbone for the CZI
that extends well into each of their personal histories
indeed you'll learn quite a lot
about Dr. Priscilla Chan
who has
I must say an absolutely incredible family story
leading up to her role as a physician
and her motivations for the CZI
and beyond
and you'll learn from Mark
how he's bringing an engineering and AI perspective
to the discovery of new cures for human disease
the second half of today's discussion
is just between Mark Zuckerberg and me
during which we discuss various meta platforms
including of course social media platforms
and their effects on mental health in children and adults
we also discuss VR, virtual reality
as well as augmented and mixed reality
and we discuss AI, artificial intelligence
and how it stands to transform not just our online experiences
with social media and other technologies
and how it stands to potentially transform
every aspect of everyday life
before we begin I'd like to emphasize that this podcast
is separate from my teaching and research roles at Stanford
it is however part of my desire and effort
to bring zero cost to consumer information about
okay so now
I'm gonna let his sponsors play out
because I want you to hear who they are
and then realize who else they sponsor
a limit or no
element is one of his sponsors
element is this salt drink
that a lot of these sports guys run
so there's like five other podcasts
that are kind of underneath Joe Rogan
and they're all sponsored by that
and you'll hear a couple other ones too
maybe I don't know
science and science related tools to the general public
in keeping with that theme
I'd like to thank the sponsors of today's podcast
our first sponsor is Ate Sleep
Ate Sleep makes smart mattress covers with cooling, heating
and sleep tracking capacity
really greatly improved
this episode is also brought to us by Element
Element is an electrolyte drink that has everything
that's a lot of water
I'll often also have
www.lmnt.com.com
I'm pleased to announce that we will be
hosting four live events in Australia
we've now scheduled
oh yeah I forgot
each of which is entitled
www.blackcom.com
to get a free sample pack with your purchase
again that's www.drinklmnt.com
it's also interesting that he's gonna host
and he's to announce that we will be hosting four live events in Australia
each of which is entitled The Brain Body Contract
during which I will share science
and science related tools for mental health
physical health and performance
so let's get him some world travel
get him to Australia
and then get him to talk about nothing
to do with the last three years of life
get him lots of hotel rooms
and stuff like that
I think you can see it
he's definitely been co-opted
he's got a great job at Stanford
he's never gonna question the narrative
even if he realizes that they're overextended
it's obvious that he probably believes in the
in the basic public health narrative
so that's unfortunate
let's go
also be a live question and answer session
we have limited tickets still available
for the event in Melbourne on February 10th
as well as the event in Brisbane on February 24th
our event in Sydney at the Sydney Opera House
sold out very quickly
so as a consequence we've now scheduled
if I learned about this a few years ago
when my lab talked so great to meet you
and thank you for having me here in your home
thanks for having us on the podcast
I'd like to talk about the CZI
Zuckerberg initiative
I learned about this a few years ago
when my lab was and still is now at Stanford
as a very exciting philanthropic effort
that has a truly big mission
I can't imagine a bigger mission
so maybe you can tell us what that big mission is
and then we can get into some of the mechanics of how that
don't forget that the Chan Zuckerberg initiative
is also responsible for BioArchive
which was one of these
preprint servers that really ruined
the beginning of the pandemic with noise
big mission can become a reality
so like you're mentioning in 2015
we launched the Chan Zuckerberg initiative
and what we were hoping to do at CZI
was think about how do we build a better future
for everyone and looking for ways
where we can contribute the resources
that we have to bring philanthropically
and the experiences that Mark and I have had
for me as a physician and educator
for Mark as an engineer
and then our ability to bring teams together
to build the builders
you know Mark has been a builder throughout his career
and what could we do if we actually put together a team
to build tools
do great science
and so within our science portfolio
we've really been focused on what
some people think is either an incredibly
audacious goal or
an inevitable goal but I think about it
as something that will happen if we sort of continue
focusing on it which is to be able to
cure prevent or manage all disease by the end of the century
all disease so that's important
right a lot of times people ask like which
disease and the whole point is that there is
not one disease and it's really about
taking a step back to where I always
found the most hope as a physician
which is new discoveries
and new opportunities and new ways of
understanding how to keep people well
come from basic science
what she just said makes absolutely no sense
and is no way related
to this absolutely ridiculous
goal of flying to the sun and
touching it with your tongue
I mean I don't even know what she's talking about
we're going to cure all diseases
and that's really important right it's all diseases
mm-hmm
do you mean diseases
like infectious diseases
or do you mean like genetic diseases
or do you mean like bacterial
infections or
do you mean like
screen addiction
or
or you see
this is the kind of bamboozlement
that gets done when you're trying to get
the money from venture capitalists
when you're trying to get money from
people who don't understand
who have been inside of the mythology
for so long
that this all sounds real
this is one of the biggest
snake oil salesman couples
on the planet
this is a non-elected
I don't even know
why she started out talking first
have you ever heard her speak before
why do I want to hear her speak?
she's just a doctor
she didn't even become rich
for any particularly good reason
other than for the fact
that her husband apparently
invented a platform
that's being used to control most of America
in the world
you're right
it's really annoying
to me right now
how many of these people presume to govern us
just based on the fact
that the system has made them rich
a system has made them
artificially rich
has raised them
artificially to be
a player at this stage
this android person over here
is not a
thought leader in any circle
that he ever sits in
at any dinner table he's ever at
and that's not a wife
who loves him
this is not a married couple
that sleeps together at night naked
are you joking?
watch them interact
over the next ten minutes
and tell me you see a couple in love
it's pathetic
we are being lied to
by liars
so our strategy at CZI
is really to build tools
fund science
change the way basic scientists can
see the world and how they can
move quickly in their discoveries
and so that's what we launched
in 2015
we do work in three ways
we fund great scientists
we build tools
right now software tools
to help move science along
and make it easier for scientists
software tools to sing
you mentioned Stanford being an important pillar
for our science work
we've built what we call bio hubs
and grant challenges
to do work that wouldn't be possible
in a single lab or within a single discipline
and our first bio hub was launched
in San Francisco
a collaboration between Stanford
UC Berkeley and UCSF
why is that amazing?
implies that
there will either be a ton of knowledge
gleaned from this effort
which I'm certain there will be and there already has been
we can talk about some of those early successes
be very careful with the words
there will be a lot of data extracted from this
I don't know how much knowledge will be extracted
from this Huberman moment
but it also sort of implies that if we can understand
some basic operations
of diseases and cells
that transcend autism
Huntington's Parkinson's cancer
and any other disease that
perhaps there are some core principles
that would make the big mission
a real reality so to speak
what I'm basically saying is
how are you attacking this?
because that the cell sits at the center
of all discussion about disease
given that our body is made up of cells
and different types of cells
so maybe you could just
illuminate for us a little bit of what
the cell is
in your mind as it relates to disease
and how one goes about understanding disease
in the context of cells
because ultimately that's what we're made up of
yeah well let's get to the cell thing in a moment
but just even take a step back from that
we don't think that
I want you to hear
this is Huberman asking them
a very hard question
about the nuts and bolts
of how the hell they're going to do this
so the proposal is
that they're going to study and catalog
all the cells of the human body
and catalog how all of the cells
in the human body work
that's one of the things he said
in the beginning
so of course he's formulated a question
that has to do with that very description
of how they plan to build this
this ladder of observation
which will ultimately lead to understanding
and this mythology is very
straightforward so
as the smart guy that he is
he just asks them a very straightforward question
about it in terms of how are you
going to go about doing it and
Zuck says well let's
in his very nice little android voice
let's go back to that subject
in just a minute but first let's address something
else that I really like a lot
hmm
belief is that the cell
sits at the center of all discussion about
disease given that our body is made up of
cells and different types of cells so maybe
could just
illuminate for us a little bit of what
the cell is
in your mind as it relates to disease
and how one goes about understanding
disease in the context of cells because ultimately
that's what we're made up of.
Yeah well let's get to the cell thing
in a moment but just even taking a step back from that
you know we don't think that it sees the eye
that we're going to cure prevent or manage all diseases
the goal is to basically give the scientific
community and scientists around the world
the tools to accelerate the pace of science
and we spent a lot of time when we were
getting started with this looking at the history
of science and trying to understand the trends
and how they've played out over time and if you look
over the this very long-term arc
most large-scale discoveries
are preceded by the invention of a new tool
or a new way to see something but it's not just in biology
right it's like having a telescope
before a lot of discoveries in astronomy
and astrophysics but similarly you know the microscope
and just different ways to observe things
or different platforms like the ability to do vaccines
preceded the ability to kind of cure a lot of different things
so this is sort of the engineering part
that you were talking about about building tools.
We view our goal is to
try to bring together some scientific
and engineering knowledge to build tools that empower
the whole field and that's sort of the big arc
and a lot of the things that we're focused on
including the work in single cell
and cell understanding which
I can't let it go I'm going to go back
I can't let it go he's such a jack
it just drives me bananas
and the fact that these people I got to be careful
because I'm going to start shouting
but what he said was
we needed to invent vaccines before we could cure things
I mean think about how much of a jackass statement
that is
he's equating microscopes and the discovery of cells
to vaccines and the curing of diseases
I just want you to ponder that
how ridiculous that analogy is or that parallel is
and how dumb that makes
it appear that he thinks we are
is Huberman going to let such a stupid statement go by?
probably because that's what he's being paid to do
but this is really really sad
because they're not even started trying to explain
this nonsense claim
and they're already talking
absolute gibberish
I don't expect anything different from this guy
he's been a snake oil salesman
liar his whole life
but
much more important and interesting
is his wife no
kind of a new tool
to see something
it's not just in biology right it's like having a telescope
you know came before a lot of
discoveries in astronomy and astrophysics
but similarly you know the microscope
and just different ways to observe things
or different platforms like the ability to do vaccines
preceded the ability to kind of cure a lot of different things
you hear that right?
I mean if my son
said that to me at the dinner table
I'd probably smack him on the side of his head
that's how stupid that statement is
have you not been listening to anything
that you've ever learned in a biology class
you jackass?
of course he's not
this is the message he's delivering
this is a weaponized podcast
on a podcast with lots and lots of viewers
and it is weaponized to put these stupid thoughts in people's heads
it's a subliminal thing
that goes right through them
nobody's pausing to talk or listen to me
tell them this they're already going on
so this is sort of the engineering part
that you were talking about about building tools
we view our goal is to
try to bring together some scientific and engineering knowledge
to build tools that empower the whole field
and that's sort of the big arc
and a lot of the things that we're focused on
including the work in single cell and cell understanding
which you can jump in and get into that if you want
but yeah I think we generally agree
with the premise that if you want to understand
the stuff in those principles
people study organs a lot
study how things present across the body
but there's not a very widespread understanding
of how each cell operates
and this is sort of a big part of
some of the initial work that we try to do on the human cell atlas
and understanding what are the different cells
and there's a bunch more work that we want to do to carry that forward
but overall I think
when we think about the next ten years here
of this long arc to try to empower the community
to be able to cure, prevent or manage all diseases
he's talking about running public health for ten years
because he's got a lot of money
we think that the next ten years
should really be primarily about
being able to measure and observe more things in human biology
there are a lot of limits today
it's like you want to look at something through a microscope
you can't usually see living tissues
because it's hard to see through skin or things like that
so there are a lot of different techniques
that will help us observe different things
and this is sort of where the engineering background
comes in a bit because
when I think about this as from the perspective of
how you write code or something
the idea of trying to debug or fix a code base
but not be able to step through the code line by line
it's not going to happen
at the beginning of any big project that we do
that meta we like to spend a bunch of the time up front
just trying to instrument things and understand
what are we going to look at and how are we going to measure things
so we know we're making progress and know what to optimize
wait what you're building something for meta
and you want to know how you're going to measure things
interesting
this is such a long-term journey
and we think that it actually makes sense to take the next 10 years
to build those kind of tools for biology and understanding
just how the human body works in action
and a big part of that is cells
do you want to jump in and talk or talk about some of the efforts?
Could I interrupt briefly and just ask about
the different interventions so to speak
that CZI is in a unique position
to bring to the quest to cure all diseases
I can think of
I know as a scientist that money is necessary
but not sufficient
when you have money you can hire more people
you can try different things so that's critical
but a lot of philanthropy includes money
the other component is
you want to be able to see things as you pointed out
so you want to know that normal disease process
what is a healthy cell?
what's a diseased cell?
cells constantly being bombarded with challenges and then repairing those
and then what we call cancer is just kind of run away
train of those challenges not being met by the cell itself
like that so better imaging tools
and then it sounds like there's not just a hardware component
but a software component
this is where AI comes in
so maybe we can break this up into three different avenues
one is understanding disease processes
and healthy processes will lump those together
then there's hardware so microscopes, lenses
digital deconvolution
ways of seeing things in bolder relief
and more precision
and then there's how to manage all the data
and then I love the idea that
maybe AI could do what human brains can't do alone
and manage understanding of the data
because it's one thing to organize data
it's another to say this as you point out on the analogy with code
this particular gene and that particular gene
are potentially interesting
whereas a human being would never make that potential connection
so you know the tools that's easy
I can bring to the table
we fund science like you're talking about
and we try to
there's lots of ways to fund science
and just to be clear what we fund
is a tiny fraction of what the NIH funds for instance
you guys have been generous enough
that it definitely holds weight
to NIH's contribution
but I think
every funder has its own role in the ecosystem
and for us it's really how do we incentivize
new points of view, how do we incentivize collaboration
how do we incentivize open science
and so a lot of our grants
include inviting people to look
in look at different fields
our first neuroscience RFA
was aimed towards incentivizing
people from different backgrounds
immunologists, microbiologists
and look at how our nervous system works
and how to keep it healthy
or we ask that our grantees
participate in the pre-print movement
to accelerate the rate of sharing knowledge
and actually others being able to build upon science
so that's the funding that we do
in terms of building
we build software
so they said pre-print servers
I would argue that pre-print servers came out
very unfortunately right at the beginning of the pandemic
or right before it
and it enabled
an opportunity
for misinformation
to occur at the systemic level
so for fake papers to come out
for papers to be
publicized through censorship
or cancellation
and ideas to be perpetuated
through these same mechanisms
and that was unfortunately really bad
during the first half of the pandemic
so they're directly responsible
for that
and you could even argue that they may have been
tasked with that
as part of their role
in the pandemic
and hardware, like you mentioned
we put together teams that
can build tools that are more
durable and scalable
than someone in a single lab might be incentivized
so we put together teams
that can build tools that are
more durable and what?
I mean these are just all buzzwords
they're words that don't mean anything
in the context of
how microscopes are
too photon scanning technology
or nano dies or anything like that
she's just
yappy yappin
and again who is this person?
just a doctor?
married to a rich guy?
I mean this might as well be
the woman of Elon Musk
or the wife of Bill Gates
like really why do I need to listen
to her about science?
what makes her an authority
other than the fact that she's
married to a rich guy?
there's lots of doctors in the world
that have given their entire life
to public health to
solving a problem
or curing a disease
this is not that person
and yet somehow we are being made
to believe that this is a person
we should look up to
look for leadership
we are under attack ladies and gentlemen
there's a ton of great ideas
and nowadays most scientists can
tinker and build something
useful for their lab
but it's really hard for them
to be able to share
that tool sometimes beyond their own laptop
or forget the next lab
over or across the globe
so we partner with scientists
to see what is useful
what kinds of tools
in imaging Nepari
it's a useful image annotation tool
that is born from an open source community
and how can we contribute to that?
or a cell by gene
which works on single cell data sets
and how can we build a useful tool
so that scientists can share data sets
analyze their own
and contribute to a larger
corpus of information
so we have software teams
we are building, collaborating with scientists
to make sure that we are building
easy to use durable, translatable tools
across the scientific community
you got to refresh if you don't have sound
we also have institutes
this is where the imaging work comes in
where we are proud owners
of electron microscope right now
it's going to be installed
at our imaging institute
and that will really contribute
to a way where we can see work differently
but the more hardware
does need to be developed
we are partnering
with fantastic scientists
in the biohub network
to build a mini phase plate
to increase, to align the electrons
through these, through the electron microscope
to be able to increase the resolution
so we can see in sharper detail
so there's a lot of innovative work
within the network that's happening
as if that kind of innovation
is unique to their little pile of money
she sounds like an ignorant little brat
ooh we have an electron microscope
oh and we're making a phase plate
so it'll focus the electrons better
we get higher results
like she's some kind of polymath
physicist, chemist, electron microscopist
we are being bamboozled
actively bamboozled
by rich people who prepare big speeches
to talk big tough things
this is a scam
we are being actively
actively
controlled, demolished
our whole country is being destroyed
by these people
by his app, by her money
and by this guy's complacency
this is one of those academic biologists
right here who should
damn well known better
that transfection is not immunization
and although I respect him
as a neurobiologist
if we came to this discussion
I would say that to his face in a heartbeat
and I guarantee you
that even with a whiteboard
between us he would not win
that conversation
he probably knows more about
the visual system than me
I have no doubt
he probably knows more about
most of the brain than I do
but immunology I got him in spades
and these people are posers
institutes have grand challenges
that they're working on
back to your question about cells
cells are just the smallest
unit that are alive
and are your body
all of our bodies have many many many cells
there's some estimate of like
37 trillion cells
different cells in your body
and what are they all doing
and what do they look like when they're healthy
what do they look like when you're sick
and where we're at right now
our understanding of cells
and what happens when you get sick
basically we have we've gotten pretty good
at from the human genome project
looking at how different mutations
in your genetic code lead for you
to be more susceptible to get sick
or directly cause you to get sick
so we go from a mutation in your DNA
to wow you now have Huntington's disease
for instance
and there's a lot that happens in the middle
and that's one of the questions
that we're going after at CZI
is what actually happens
so an analogy that I like to use to share
right now say we have a recipe for a cake
we know there's a typo in the recipe
and then the cake is awful
that's all we know
we don't know how the chef interprets the typo
we don't know what happens in the oven
and we don't actually know sort of how it's
exactly connected to how the cake didn't turn out
how you had expected
a lot of that is unknown
but we can actually systematically
try to break this down
so you want me to kick the shit out of that analogy
I'm sorry I'm swearing
but I'm getting really annoyed
so she says that
they have a recipe with a typo in it
and the cake doesn't turn out right
so they don't know really why that happens
but they got to figure it out
we don't know how the chef interprets the error
it's very very frustrating
ladies and gentlemen because again
we have somebody making
the pattern integrity of a human
into something as dumb simple
as baking a cake
so we're not even talking about the production of a protein
right
we're talking about a diseased
human and some genetic correlations
silent mutations lead to disease
we don't understand how they do that
some mutations in proteins don't cause a detectable disease
we don't know why
and so we start with these dumb simple
analogies because that's how you write a grant
that's how
how Huberman is used to thinking
but that only gets you so far
and it has only gotten us so far
for a very very long time
and in fact why we are hitting the wall
is because those kinds of dumb simple
analogies and
extracting experimental questions
based on those dumb simple analogies
will never penetrate
the actual complexity of life
that you're trying to penetrate
but that's not the point here
the point is to bamboozle people
into believing that this is an
inevitable
over the next hill all of these
things are going to be known
we barely know how any of these cells
in the body work but you know we can do it
we just have to keep driving over that hill
and one segment of that journey
that we're looking at is how that mutation
gets translated and acted upon in
your cells and all of your cells
have what's called mRNA
mRNA are the actual instructions
that are taken from the DNA
and what our work in single cell is
looking at how
every cell in your body is actually
interpreting your DNA slightly differently
and what happens
when healthy cells are interpreting the DNA instructions
and when sick cells are interpreting those directions
basically what she's talking about
is trying to kind of describe
the complexity of life
to the extent to which she can claim
she wants to investigate
it would be a bit like the guy that Mark covered
a few weeks ago that did all the ribosome work
for him to
really beautifully explain how
complicated ribosomes are and how
little we understand them and then saying
that's why he dedicated his life to that work
did he solve it?
no did he say he was going to solve it?
no
he picked little pieces of it and tried to push
the ball forward for his entire life
got a Nobel Prize and still doesn't know how
the frickin hell a ribosome works
or how proteins fold or anything like that
and so she's doing an even dumber
simple cartoon
to try and show you that
she can appreciate the complexity of life
by
inadequately articulating it
and then just going to pivot to claiming
that that
inadequate articulation of what a pattern integrity
is in a human being
is licensed for her to say
that she's going to give money to people
so that they can figure out how it works
that we're going to collect enough data
so we can figure out how it works
I'm just going to tell you right now
these people are liars
it's not even bullshitting
it's just lying
you know you're lying
none of they don't believe anything they're saying
and if they do they haven't really
thought about it very long
they're not very smart people
and this
this fake enthusiasm for the inevitability
of transhumanism
being able to collect enough data to understand
and then remodel
the human genome
it's just a lack of reverence
for the sacred that deserves punishment
I really wish that these
guys were on my basketball team or something
and I could just make them go to the baseline
and start running
because it's just dumb
and that is a ton of data
I just told you there's 37 trillion cells
there's different large
sets of mRNA in each cell
but the work that we've been funding is
looking at how first of all
gathering that information
we've been incredibly lucky
to be part of a very fast-moving
field where
we've gone from in 2017
funding some methods work
to now having really not complete
but nearly complete atlases
of how the human body works
how flies work
not complete but nearly complete atlases
on how the fly works
and the human body works
what kind of stupid statement
is that
I mean seriously what kind of stupid
statement is that
this is the kind of arrogance
that I'm talking about
the complete lack of reverence
for the biology they're studying
it is absolutely disgusting
it borders on blasphemy
we've gone from in 2017
funding some methods work
to now having really
not complete but nearly complete
atlases of how the human body works
how flies work
how mice work
at the single cell level
and being able to then try to piece together
and the neat thing about
the sort of inflection point
where we're at in AI
is that I can't look at this data
and make sense of it
there's just too much of it
and biology is complex
human bodies are complex
we need this much information
but the use of large language models
can help us actually
look at that data and gain insights
look at what trends are
consistent with health
understand patterns and genomes
and what's consistent with disease
and what's consistent with health
I'm suspected
and eventually our hope
through the use of these data sets
that we've helped curate in the application
of large language models
is to be able to formulate a virtual cell
a cell that's completely
built off of the data sets of what we know about the human body
maybe you can use that virtual cell
and then you can put on goggles
and go do that shit forever
just do your experiments all in your virtual cells
and you can never talk to us again
but allows us to manipulate and learn faster
and try new things to help move science
and then medicine alone
do you think we've cataloged
the total thing?
think about how dumb that is
we're going to make a model of a virtual cell
that will allow us to do things
that normal cells wouldn't
you're going to make a MATLAB version of a cell
that's going to give you some insight into how to manipulate cell function
why don't you just make a model of the weather
so that we can know what the weather is going to be tomorrow
why don't you make a model of a pandemic
so we know how many people are going to die
make some models about what happens
when people stop vaccinating
maybe you can make some models
about what happens when you
put certain Facebook posts
in front of certain people's faces
and how many negative Trump Facebook posts
would you have to put in front of Democrats
registered Democrats' faces
before there would be a civil war
why don't you measure something useful
with the data that you have
these are charlatan liars
charlatan liars at the highest
absolute highest echelons
of our visible social structure
and I say that very
specifically our visual
visible social structure
in America is how we are being covered
these visible thought leaders
that are put in front of us
by the algorithms
artificially elevated by the algorithms
including these three people
this guy, an academic biologist
who almost certainly has used
transfection in his lab
multiple times on multiple projects
but was too stupid to know that we shouldn't
transfect healthy humans
what else, how else should I characterize him?
I mean if you were
if you drove your car into somebody's house
because you thought the garage door
was going to open by itself
you can't just say like well I mean
you know
and if you let a bunch of people
transfect themselves and you should have done
known better then you're dumb
you should have spoke up
maybe he doesn't even know yet
but that's very unlikely
it's very unlikely at this point
that any of these people don't know
and the ones that don't know
choose not to know
the lookaway doctrine
in the military it's called
just don't ask questions about what's happening behind that curtain
what are those sounds?
it doesn't matter it's none of your concern
without a doubt
all these people know how we're being governed
without a doubt all these people know
we're being governed by a mythology
they are just participating
because they get fame
fortune and status from it
number of different cell types
every week I look at great journals like
cell nature and science
I saw recently that using single cell sequencing
they've categorized
18 plus different types of fat cells
we always think like a fat cell versus a muscle cell
so now you've got 18 types
each one is going to express many many different
genes and RNAs
and perhaps the
one of them is responsible for
you know what we see in advanced type 2 diabetes
or in other forms of obesity
or where people can't lay down fat cells
which turns out to be just as detrimental in those extreme cases
so now you've got all these lists of genes
but I always thought of single cell sequencing
as necessary but not sufficient
but you need the information but it doesn't
resolve the problem and I think of it more of a
as a hypothesis generating experiment
okay so you have all these genes and you can say
well this gene is particularly elevated in the
diabetics cell type of
let's say one of these fat cells or muscle cells
for that matter
whereas it's not in non-diabetics
so then of the millions of different cells
maybe only five of them differ dramatically
so then you generate a hypothesis
oh it's the ones that differ dramatically that are important
but maybe one of those genes
when it's only you know 50%
changed has a huge effect because of some
network biology effect and so I guess what I'm trying to
get to here is you know how does one
meet that challenge and can AI help resolve that challenge
by essentially placing those lists of genes
into a you know 10,000 hypotheses
because I'll tell you that the graduate students and postdocs
in my lab get a chance to test one hypothesis at a time
and that's really the challenge let alone one lab
and so for those that are listening to this
and you know hopefully it's not getting outside the scope
of kind of like standard understanding
or the understanding we've generated here
but what basically saying is you have to pick at some point
more data always sounds great but then how do you decide what to test?
so no we don't know all the cell types
I think one of the one thing that was really exciting
when we first launched this work was you know cystic fibrosis
like cystic fibrosis is caused by mutation
and CFTR that's pretty well known
it affects a certain channel that makes it hard for mucus to be clear
that's the basic cystic fibrosis when I went to medical school
it was taught as fat
so their lungs fill up with fluid
carrying around sacks of fluid filling up
I've known people I've worked with people and they have to literally dump the fluid out
they can't run or do an intense exercise life is shorter
life is shorter and when we applied single cell methodologies to the lungs
they discovered an entirely new cell type that actually is affected by mutation
and the CF mutation the cystic fibrosis mutation
that actually changes the paradigm of how we think about cystic fibrosis
just a note so I don't think we know all the cell types
I think we'll continue to discover them
we'll continue to discover new relationships between cell and disease
which leads me to the second example I want to bring up is
this large data set that the entire scientific community has built our own single cell
is starting to allow us to say this mutation
where is it expressed what types of cell types it's expressed in
and we actually have built a tool at CZI called cell by gene
where you can put in the mutation that you're interested in
and it gives you a heat map of cross cell types
of which cell types are expressing the gene that you're interested in
and so then you can start looking at okay if I look at gene X
and I know it's related to heart disease but if you look at the heat map
it's also spiking in the pancreas that allows you to generate a hypothesis why
and what happens when this gene is mutated and you're in the function of your pancreas
really exciting way to look and ask questions differently
and you can also imagine a world where if you're trying to develop a therapy
a drug and the goal is to treat the function of the heart
but you know that it's also really active in the pancreas again
so what is there going to be an unexpected side effect that you should think about
as you're bringing this drug to clinical trials
so she's talking about bringing a drug to clinical trials
she's talking about substances she's talking about products
she's BSing
and they're lying about this idea that they're going to cure all diseases
they're going to collect all the data
they're going to collect all the data as much data as they possibly can
under the excuse of philanthropy and maybe public health
but they're also talking about software tools that they're going to apply to this data
so that it becomes proprietary information so that it becomes patentable
make no mistake about it it's all the same game
it's the same game as Absolera's playing
they're playing the same game with the data
they're trying to monetize it
privatize it
profitize it whatever
make it into a product
and these software stacks that they're using as informatics
you know processing tools they're all patented
they're all going to be rented out
and even if they become public tools that's not the point
the point is is that they're gathering the data
and they're doing it under false pretenses
they're doing it under the idea that they're going to help people
what they want to do is control
and I'm going to say it one more time
because I think it's very important to point out
if my wife and I were to do this interview
you would see that we were married
and it would be obvious that we sleep together
the love between my wife and I would be obvious
our affection would be obvious
our mutual respect would be obvious
and I don't see it here
I don't see it here at all
and that's because it's not there
this is a fake couple that is being used to rule us
I'm certain of it
it's an incredibly exciting tool
and one that's only going to get better
as we get more and more sophisticated ways to analyze the data
let's say I love that because if I look at the advances
in neuroscience over the last 15 years
most of them did necessarily come from looking at the nervous system
came from the understanding that the immune system impacts the brain
everyone prior to that talked about the brain as immune-privileged organ
what you just said also bridges the divide between
single cells organs and systems
because ultimately cells make up organs
and they're all talking to one another
and everyone nowadays is familiar with gut brain access
or the microbiome being so important
but rarely is the discussion between organs
discussed so to speak
what's really frustrating about this
is that this guy is actually a real physical fitness freak
you can see he's kind of pumped up
he talks about exercise a lot
and about an exercise routine and about sleep
and about house sleep
thank you very much I know very well can ruin your physical mental health
he knows all about food
and about the gut brain interaction
which he just casually glossed over there
how does studying individual cells
ever get you to the point to understand how they contribute to the pattern integrity
and when is this guy going to say
so what about this curing all diseases
where's the health and wellness part about this
where's the nutritional aspect of it
are you funding anything that has to do with changing people's lifestyles
as opposed to just fixing the problems that are caused by the crap
habits that they have
because that's the part of this narrative that gets very very frustrating
because obese people are not people that need a cure
obese people are not people that need medicine
obese people are not people that need a special pill that hasn't been invented yet
I'm going to go out and a limb here and say that a lot of obese people just need a kick in the ass
they needed to be told they were fat
a long frickin time ago by somebody that loved them
so that they would have done something different about the choices that they made for the last 20 years
but I hate to break it to you
but if the math says that if you're 600 pounds there was a time when you were 300
and when you were 300 pounds someone should have done told you that you're too stupid fat
but none of that discussion is on this table here
you talk about diabetes but you're not going to talk about the American diet
and about how little we do to solve that problem in children
you're not going to talk about the fact that zucker could frickin fund an entire public school
lunch program for the money that he's doing and that would cure so many more diseases than anything else
this is where this just gets absurd
that these guys are all rubbing each other and getting all excited about all the big words they can use together
and how they can agree on what they mean
but they're not talking about the heart of the problem
we got this 340 million people and most of them are unhealthy
and it's not because we haven't solved the problem of the human genome yet
I think that's a very clever way of putting it
we've got 350 million people in the United States
most of them are extremely unhealthy
and it's not because we haven't solved the human genome yet
you jackasses
it's wonderful so that that tool was generated by CZI or CZI funded that tool
we built that
we built it
so is it built by meta?
it's its own engineers
got it
there are completely different organizations
incredible
and so a graduate student or postdoc who's interested in particular mutation
can put this mutation into this database
that graduate student or postdoc might be in a laboratory known for working on heart
but suddenly find that they're collaborating with other scientists that work on the pancreas
which also is wonderful because it bridges the divide between these fields
fields are so siloed in science
not just different buildings but people rarely talk unless things like this are happening
I mean the graduate student is someone that we want to empower because one they're the future of science as you know
and within cell by gene if you put in the gene you're interested in and it shows you the heat map
we also will pull up like the most relevant papers to that gene
and so like read these things
fantastic
as we all know quality nutrition influences of course our physical health
but also our mental health and our cognitive functioning
our memory our ability to learn new things and to focus
and we know that one of the most important features of high quality nutrition
is making sure that we get enough vitamins and minerals from high quality unprocessed or minimally processed sources
as well as enough probiotics and prebiotics and fiber to support basically all the cellular functions in our body
including the gut microbiome
now I like most everybody try to get optimal nutrition from whole foods
ideally mostly from minimally processed or non processed foods
however one of the challenges that I and so many other people face
is getting enough servings of high quality fruits and vegetables per day
as well as fiber and probiotics that often accompany those fruits and vegetables
that's why way back in 2012 long before I ever had a podcast
I started drinking AG1
and so I'm delighted that AG1 is sponsoring the Huberman lab podcast
the reason I started taking AG1 and the reason I still drink AG1 once or twice a day
is that it provides all of my foundational nutritional needs
that is it provides insurance that I get the proper amounts of vitamins, minerals, probiotics and fiber
to ensure optimal mental health, physical health and performance
if you'd like to try AG1 you can go to drinkag1.com slash Huberman to claim a special offer
they're giving away 5 free travel packs plus a year's supply of vitamin D3K2
again that's drinkag1.com slash Huberman to claim that special offer
I just think going back to your question
that was too ironic more sometimes I could discover it I mean I assume so
right I mean no catalog of the stuff is ever you know doesn't seem like we're ever done
right we keep on finding more but I think that
what is the problem with finding more do you understand that there's this thing
right about lumpers and splitters in biology
and what they're right now talking about is the splitting aspect of biology
so biologists tend to be lumped into two groups or can be lumped into two groups
they can be lumped into lumpers or splitters
the splitters are people that like to split things into ever smaller categories to study ever more
detailed categorization of things to try and understand things
and lumpers are people that like to lump things together in order to understand them
and generally speaking it is really true
biologists are either one or the other and it seems like these guys have decided that the splitters are the right ones
and so they're talking about classifying cells and every time they start to dissect a new cell population
we find all kinds of new cell types
that's the problem with being a splitter
you know if you just say you like blondes that's a lot of girls
if you start to say well I like blondes but I'm really picky about their
whether how long the hair is and what color their eyes are and whether they like to wear jeans or not
then you're a splitter
and in biology trying to understand things exclusively by splitting things
and ever smaller things is a bit like imagining that if you dissect the complexity of the pattern integrity enough
that how its parts come together will make sense
for example if you just studied all of the molecules in a wave of water
eventually if you knew where all those molecules were you'd be able to simulate the wave
and you understand how waves work
and so you're studying these little molecules and the salt and everything
but you don't have any concept of how they work together to form a wave
to find how the server rides it
and in this scenario they're talking about splitting cells into ever smaller groups with the idea
that once we split them into the useful groups the right groups
then the pattern that they make together will become obvious
and I think this is really a wrong answer
of modern LLMs is the ability to kind of imagine different states that things can be in
so from all the work that we've done and funded on the human cell atlas
there is a large deal you get the feeling that he looks at her sometimes to get a nod
or like looks at her for approval
I really feel like he's looking for her to say no or yes when he looks over to her
and she's never looking at him she's always looking down really intensely listening in case she has to correct him
purpose of data that you can now train a kind of large scale model on
and one of the things that we're doing is see
which I think is pretty exciting is building what we think is one of the largest non-profit life sciences
AI clusters right it's like a you know the order of a thousand GPUs
and you know it's larger than what most people have access to in academia
you can do serious engineering work on
and you know by basically training a model with all of the human cell atlas data
and a bunch of other inputs as well
we think you'll be able to basically imagine all of the different types of cells
and all the different states that they can be in and when they're healthy and diseased
and how they'll interact with different interact with each other interact with different potential drugs
but I mean I think the state of LLMs
I think this is where it's helpful to understand you know have a good understanding
and be grounded in like the modern state of AI I mean these things are not full
so he's talking about language models again LLMs
so he's still talking about using a language model to crack the genome
proof right I mean one of the flaws of modern LLMs is they hallucinate right so the question is how do you make it so that
that can be an advantage rather than a disadvantage
and I think the way that it ends up being an advantage is when they help you imagine
a bunch of states that someone could be in but then you know as the scientist or engineer go and validate
that those are true whether they're you know solutions to how a protein can be folded
or possible states that a cell could be in when it's interacting with other things
but you know we're not yet at the state with AI that you can just take the outputs of these things
as like as gospel and run from there but they are very good I think as you said hypothesis generators
or possible solution generators that then you can go validate so I know that's a very powerful
thing that we can basically you know building on the first five years of science work
around the human cell atlas and all the data that's been built out carry that forward
into something that I think is going to be a very novel tool going forward
and that's the type of thing that I think we're set up to do well I mean you all you had
this exchange a little while back about you know funding levels and how CZI is
you know just sort of a drop in the in the bucket compared to NIH but I think we have this
the thing that I think we can do that's different is funding some of these longer term
bigger projects that it is hard to galvanize the and pull together the energy to do that
and it's a lot of what most science funding is is like relatively small projects that are exploring
things over relatively short time horizons and one of the things that we try to do is
like build these tools over you know five ten fifteen year periods they're often projects
that require you know hundreds of millions of dollars of funding and world class engineering
teams and infrastructure to do and that I think is a pretty cool contribution to the field
that that I think is there aren't as many other folks who are doing that kind of thing
but that's one of the reasons why I'm personally excited about the virtual cell stuff because
it just it's like this perfect intersection of all the stuff that we've done in single cell
to previous so virtual cells is dumb as a as a virtual cube of neurons that that
Henry Markham said he was going to make in with the blue brain project way back in
2005 or 2008 and he got a billion dollars from the EU to do a human brain project where
he's going to simulate the whole human brain using neurons that had ten thousand compartments
each he really got a billion dollars to do that because he talked that much smack his name is
Henry Markham I've done some shows about him before years ago and this is no different
this is the same dumb talk in the virtual cell I mean the virtual cell I mean come on
the virtual cell the arrogance of this jack is just crazy but they all do it they all
play the same game ladies and gentlemen all of them play the same game it's a bullshit
game it's a lying game it's a confidence game and we are being governed by a confidence
game by these kinds of people in a lot of ways these kinds of people have more influence
behind the scenes and a lot of our politicians do our politicians are almost neutered at this
stage they don't do anything they oversee a bankrupt government
operations that we've done with the field and bring together the industry and AI expertise
around this yeah I completely agree that the model of science that you're put together
with CZI isn't just unique from NIH but it's extremely important the independent investigator
model is what's driven the progression of science in this country and to some extent
in northern Europe for the last hundred years and it's wonderful on the one hand because
it allows for that image we have of a scientist kind of tinkering away or the people in their
lab and then they reek us and that hopefully translates to better human health but I think
in my opinion we've moved past that model as the most effective model or the only model
that should be explored yeah I just think it's a balance you want that but you want to
empower those people I think that that's these tools and show those and their mechanisms
to do that like NIH but but it's hard to do collaborative sciences it's sort of interesting
that we're sitting here not far because I grew up right near here as well I'm not far from
the garage model of tech right he looked at the backward model not far from here at all
and the idea was you know the tinkerer in the garage the inventor and then people often
forget that to implement all the technologies they discovered took enormous factories and
warehouse so you know there's there's a similarity there to Facebook meta etc but I think in
science what we imagine that the scientists alone in their laboratory and those eureka
moments but I think nowadays that the big questions really require extensive collaboration
and certainly tool development and one of the tools that you keep coming back to is these
LLM's these large language models and maybe you could just elaborate for for those that
aren't familiar you know what are what is a large language model for that the uninformed
what is it and what does it allow what does it allow us to do that you know different
types of other types of AI don't allow or more importantly perhaps what does it allow us
to do that a bunch of really smart people highly informed in a given area of science staring
at the data what can I do that they can't do sure so I think a lot of the progression
of machine learning has been about building systems neural networks or otherwise that
can basically make sense and find patterns in larger and larger amounts of data and there's
a breakthrough a number of years back that some folks at Google actually made called
this transformer model architecture and it was this huge breakthrough because before then
there was somewhat of a cap where you know if you fed more data into a neural network
past some some point it didn't really glean more insights from it whereas transformers
just you know we haven't seen the end of how big that can scale to yet I mean I think
there's a chance that we run into some some ceiling but it's never asymptotes we haven't
observed it yet but we just haven't built big enough systems yet so I would guess that
I don't know I think this is actually one of the big questions and in the AI field today
is basically our transformers and our current model architecture is sufficient and if you
just build larger and larger clusters you eventually get something that's like human
intelligence or super intelligence or is there some kind of fundamental limit to this architecture
that we just haven't reached yet and once we we kind of get a little bit further
in building them out then we'll reach that and we'll need a few more leaps before we get to
you know the level of AI that I think will unlock you know a ton of really futuristic
and amazing things but there's no doubt that even just being able to process the amount of data
that we can now with this model architecture has unlocked a lot of new use cases and the
other called large language models is because one of the first uses of them is people basically
feed in all of the language from basically the world wide web and you can think about
them as basically prediction machines so if you fit in and you put in prompt and it can
basically you know predict a version of what should come next so you know you like type
in a headline for a news story and it can kind of predict what it thinks the story should
be or you could train it so that it can be a chatbot right where if you're prompted
this question you can get this response but one of the interesting things is it turns
out that there's actually nothing specific to using human language in it so if instead
of feeding it human language if you use that model architecture for a network and instead
you feed it all of the human cell outless data then if you prompt it with a state of a cell
it can spit out different versions of like what you know how that cell can interact
or different states that the cell could be a next when it interacts with different things so this is
so stupid because what he's suggesting is that we have an equivalent understanding
of biology that we do of human language that human biology has all these known grammatical
rules that we already know and there are very limited set of grammatical rules and so it's
very easy to predict what will come next but without the grammatical rules without any
understanding of what the language means without understanding what the words mean after
they're read without understanding what the words mean after they're read and then stored
never mind what the stored information is then read out again in behavior
again this is ridiculously dumb simple this is really bamboozling people and I'm so shocked
but this dude right here is being so steamrolled it's like he's an idiot
I think he's tried to ask a couple questions but I'm kind of ashamed of him actually
I mean he just did he just did a an advertisement about nutrition and health right you know that
right and he still isn't asked the question of wait let's get around this for a minute
does it have to take a genetics class so for instance if you give it a bunch of genetics
do you have to say hey by the way and then you give it a genetics class it would understand
so you know you got DNA RNA mRNA and proteins I think that the basic nature of all these
machine learning techniques is there they're basically pattern recognition systems so they're
these like very deep statistical machines they still require somebody to teach them you still
need someone to teach them the English language to give them the rules and to correct them
when they're wrong for millions of iterations before they start to perform like he's talking
about and so what are you gonna do sit Kevin McCurnan down at a table and say okay what's
this gene mean Kevin type it in what do these two genes mean together type it in what if
this gene's higher than that gene type it in Kevin what the hell is his plan to teach
this model there's no plan they don't have anything to teach it they're gonna put a
bunch of data in there and then what it's gonna mix it around like in a washing machine
it's gonna come out all folded and sorted by color this is this is absolute enchantment
it's just downright snake oil and the Zuckerberg for sure is not qualified enough as a as an
armchair biologist even wax intellectual about these things and you can hear it looks like
this woman is kind of ashamed of them they're very efficient at finding patterns so it's not
actually you don't need to teach a language model that's trying to you know speak a language
you know a lot of specific things about that language either you just feed it in a bunch
of examples and then you know let's say you teach it about something in English but then you
also give it a bunch of examples of people speaking Italian it'll actually be able to explain
the thing that it learned in English and Italian right even though it is so the crossover
and just the pattern recognition is the thing that is pretty profound and powerful about this
but it really does apply to a lot of different things another example in the scientific community
has been the work that alpha fold you know that basically the folks at DeepMind have done
on protein fold it's you know just basically a lot of the same model architecture but instead
of language there they fold it they kind of fed in all of these protein data and you can
give it a state and it can spit out solutions to how those proteins get folded so it can
fit out solutions and then those solutions still have to be checked in the real world against
the real background the specific ribosomes you're using and the specific RNA transcript you're
using in the specific cell type you're using you're lying oversimplifying jackass with
no respect for the sacred biology of a human screw you it's very powerful I don't think
we know yet as an industry what the what the natural limits of it are and that that's
one of the things that's pretty exciting about the current state but it certainly allows you
to solve problems that just weren't solved with the generation of machine learning that came
before it sounds like CZI is moving a lot of work that was just done in vitro in dishes
and in vivo in living organisms model organisms are humans to in silico as we say so do you
foresee a future where a lot of biomedical research certainly that the work of CZI included
is done by machines I mean obviously it's much lower cost and you can run millions of experiments
which of course is not to say that humans are not going to be involved but I love the idea
that we can run experiments in silico and mass I think the in silica experiments are going
to be incredibly helpful to test things quickly to cheaply into just unleash a lot of creativity
I do think you need to be very careful about making sure it still translates and unleash
creativity is rich people talk for wasting people's time matches this humans you know one thing that's funny
in basic sciences we've basically cured every single disease and mice like mice have we know what's
going on when they have a number of diseases because they're used as a model organism but they are not
used in a lot of times that research is relevant that is such a lie you want to know the truth
about laboratory mice almost every laboratory mouse if you let them live long they die of cancer
that's what they die of all of the inbred mice in the lab die of cancer all of them
and I'm going to vomit a little bit in my throat when I say this but actually the person who
is largely responsible for this story is Brett Weinstein the only scientific paper he ever really
did looked at and made a prediction that it might be that because we're in breeding these mice and
we're always killing them before they're very old that we might not really be selecting for mice
that can fight cancer it turns out it seems like he was kind of right that almost all laboratory
mice that are inbred die of cancer if you let them because of their telomeres and something else they
don't seem to have any cancer fighting mechanisms really left over after all this inbreeding
so we know how to cure all the diseases in mice we know how to cure all the diseases in mice
as Dr Priscilla Chan I'm going to rewind it just so you can hear how just absolutely stupid she
thinks we are in silica experiments are going to be incredibly helpful to test things quickly
to cheaply into just unleash a lot of creativity I do think you need to be very careful about
making sure it still translates and matches this humans you know one thing that's funny in basic
sciences we've basically cured every single disease in mice like mice have we know what's going on
when they have a number of diseases because they're used as a model organism but they are not humans
and a lot of times that research is relevant but not directly one to one translatable to human
not directly one to one translatable you mean mice lie monkeys mislead and the only way to know what happens
in a human is a human or something like that now you're making it a little grayer we cured all the diseases in mice
can somebody please take away her medical degree can someone please take away her keys to the car
she does not belong distributing money to scientists and encouraging people to do work if this is the kind of
understanding she has of the pattern integrity that is the human being this is just disgusting
so you just have to be really careful about making sure that it actually works for humans
sounds like what CZI is doing is actually creating a new field as I'm hearing all of this
I'm thinking okay this transcends immunology department you know cardiothoracic surgery I mean neuroscience
the idea of a new field where you certainly embrace the realities of universities and laboratories because that's where
most of the work that you're funding is done is that right so maybe we need to think about what it means to do
science differently and I think that's one of the things that's most exciting and along those lines it seems that
being together a lot of different types of people different major institutions is going to be especially important
so I know that the initial CZI bio hub gratefully included Stanford we'll put that first in the list
but also UCSF forgive me many friends at UCSF and also Berkeley but there are now some additional institutions
involved so maybe you talk about that and what motivated the decision to branch outside the bay area
and and why you selected those particular additional institutions to be included
well I'll just say part of a big part of why we wanted to create additional bio hubs is we were just so impressed
by the work that the folks who are running the first bio hub did and I also think and you should walk through the work
of the Chicago bio hub and the New York bio hub that we just announced but I think it's actually an interesting
set of examples that balance the limits of what you want to do with like physical material engineering
and and and where things are purely biological because the Chicago team is really building more sensors to build
understand what's going on your body but that's more of like a physical oh the Chicago team is building sensors
to collect data from your body no I see where we're going but you knew that already right
I mean does it surprise you I shouldn't surprise you we've been talking about them chipping you for the last three years
you don't think they're just going to chip you to put your money in your hand do you that would be a waste of time
of course they're going to put a sensor in there
engineering challenge whereas the the New York team we basically talk about this is like a cellular endoscope
of being able to have like an immune cell or something that can go and understand you know what is like what's the thing
that's going on in your body but it's not like a physical piece of hardware it's a cell that you can basically
you know have have just go report out on on on different things that are happening inside the body so you should sell the microscope
totally they're talking about making a cell that can report what's going on in the body to make a cell into a microscope
and she says totally seriously your body but it's not like a physical piece of hardware it's a cell that you can basically
you know have have just go report out on on different things that are happening inside the body so you should sell the microscope
totally and then and then eventually actually being able to act on it but I mean but you should you should go into more detail
on all this so a core principle of how we think about bio hubs it is that it has to be when we invited proposals it has to be at least
three institutions so really breaking down the barrier of a single university oftentimes asking for the people designing the
research aim to come from all different backgrounds and to explain why that the problem that they want to solve requires interdisciplinary
inter-university institution collaboration to actually make happen we just put that request for proposal out there with our San Francisco
bio hub as an example where they've done incredible work in single cell biology and infectious disease and we got I want to say like 57 proposals
from over 150 institutions a lot of ideas came together and you know we are so so excited that we've been able to launch Chicago and New York
Chicago is a collaboration between UIUC, University of Illinois, Urina Champaign and University of Chicago and Northwestern
and if I obviously these universities are multifaceted but if I were to describe them by their like stereotypical strength
Northwestern has an incredible medical system and hospital system University of Chicago brings to the table incredible basic science strengths
University of Illinois is a computing powerhouse and so they came together and proposed that they were going to start thinking about cells in tissue
so that one of the one of the layers that you just alluded to so how do the cells that we know behave and act differently when they come together as a
tissue and the first one of the first tissues that they're starting with is skin so they've been already been able to as a collaboration under the leadership of Shana Kelly design
art of engineered skin tissue the architecture looks the same as what's in you and I and what they've done is built these super super thin sensors and they embed these sensors throughout the layers of this engineered tissue
and they read out the data they want to see how these cells what these cells are secreting how these cells talk to each other and what happens when these cells get inflamed
inflammation is an incredibly important process that drives 50% of all deaths and so this is another sort of disease agnostic approach we want to understand inflammation
and they're going to get a ton of information out from these sensors that tell you what happens when something goes awry because right now we can say like when you have an allergic reaction your skin gets red and puffy
what is the earliest signal of that and these sensors can look at the behaviors of these cells over time and then you can apply a large language model to look at the earliest statistically significant changes
always about technology implanted and then AI data collection it's always about that even if we already knew how cells work or how skin works
it's not like we never studied it before they are not trying to understand how skin works they're trying to understand how to measure how skin works
that they can then measure you these are products that they plan to put in every person they're not doing skin in a laboratory so they can understand skin in a laboratory so they never have to study you
this is dual use stuff here this is big time this is for your children that's the plan
and she's talking about inflammation curing all disease would really I would assume revolve around understanding the immune system yet for some reason in this talk this is the first time the immune system has ever even really come on the scene
but they're gonna cure all diseases by looking at all the cells in the body well yeah the immune system does inflammation too
that can allow you to intervene as early as possible so that that's what Chicago's doing they're starting in the skin cells they're also looking at the neuromuscular junction
which is the connection between where a neuron attaches to a muscle and tells a muscle how to behave super important in things like ALS but also in aging
the slowed transmission of information across that neuromuscular junction is what causes old people to fall their brain cannot trigger their muscles to react fast enough
and so we want to be able to embed these sensors to understand how these different interconnected systems within our bodies work together
in New York they're doing I think that's a little weird that he's not on that
because the reason why people fall is because they can't activate their muscles so they want to look at neuromuscular junctions it has nothing to do with the neurons that feed down
it's really the neuromuscular junction it's not neurons in the brain that are incapable of activating the neurofibers that lead to the muscle
that's a pretty gigantic assumption that I'm almost certain is wrong and I'm almost certain that Huberman could correct her on it but he doesn't want to embarrass her
he doesn't want to embarrass her by saying that your dumb simple model of why old people fall is really like ignoring all three trillion brain cells
if you're looking at the neuromuscular junction
is it really because acetylcholine isn't released on time? has nothing to do with the processing up here?
I mean that kind of statement alone can show you exactly how compromised this whole podcast is
he's done four commercials for products and he's basically asked one hard question that they didn't answer
and since then he's kind of been capitulating and asking increasingly weaker questions that really are just compliments like I think you guys are inventing a whole new field
why don't you just ask him out for dinner?
a related but equally exciting project where they're engineering individual cells to be able to go in and identify changes in a human body
so what they'll do is they're calling it a while I mean I love it I mean this is I don't want to go on attention
but for those that want to look at adaptive optics you know there's a lot of distortion and interference when you try and look at something really small they're really far away
and really smart physicists figured out well use the interference as part of the microscope make those actually lenses of the microscope
it's extremely clever along those lines it's not intuitive but then when you hear it it's like it makes so much sense
you know it's not immediately intuitive make the cells that are already can navigate to tissues or embed themselves in tissues
be the microscope within that tissue I love it
the way that I explain this to my friends and my family is this is fantastic voyage but real life
like we are going into the human body and we're using the immune cells which you know are privileged and already working to keep your body healthy
and being able to target them to examine certain things so like you can engineer an immune cell to go in your body and look inside your coronary arteries
and say are these arteries healthy or are there plaques because plaques lead to it
wow so that's a really interesting statement and the cell can then record that information and report it back up
that's the first half of the New York biohub is going to do
fantastic so that's an interesting thing she says that you can program immune cells to go places and then report back what they find
now that's some pretty impressive biology I'm gonna have to investigate that claim
because what she just described there sounds an awful lot like they know exactly how the immune system works and can make it bend to their will
to examine certain things so like you can engineer an immune cell to go in your body and look inside your coronary arteries
and say are these arteries healthy or are there plaques because plaques lead to blockage which lead to heart attacks
and the cell can then record that information and report it back up that's the first half of the New York biohub is going to do
the second half is can you then engineer the cells to go do something about it can I then tell a different cell
I mean cell that is able to transport in your body to go in and clean that up in a targeted way and so it's incredibly exciting
they're gonna study things that are sort of immune privilege that your immune system normally doesn't have access to things like ovarian and pancreatic cancer
they'll also look at a number of neurodegenerative diseases since the immune system doesn't it's not really sounding like she's gonna cure all diseases
it sounds like she's gonna work on some really hard ones someone with really obvious solutions or really obvious phenotypes
it sounds like basically the title of this podcast and the claim that they make in the beginning is just elaborate forward thinking statements
that may or may not be accurate
they just seem like statements that are designed to bamboozle the average person the average carpenter plumber teacher into believing that these ultra smart people with their big words
are so far ahead of us and we might as well just sit back and put more pop tarts in the toaster and log into Netflix
because you know Robert Malone and Steve Kirsch got the mRNA all wrapped up and AI and everything is and the future of public health is already taken care of by Amazon Health
and Zuckerberg and Free Speech is already controlled by Elon Musk so everything is fine what do I gotta do?
Our children are under attack by these people our children are who they want slowly but surely they are going to separate us from our children by telling our children that our parents
our skeptical parents are wrong our skeptical parents are selfish our skeptical parents should take our booster and shut up
ladies and gentlemen strokes around the world among young people are on the rise and there is no explanation except for transfection
and these people don't care
SIDS deaths are on a rise and people don't care heart attacks are on the rise cancers on the rise auto immune diseases are on the rise and these people don't care because they're going to cure all disease
and we have a ton of access into the nervous system but they it's it's both mind blowing and it feels like sci-fi but science is actually in a place where if you really pushed a group of incredibly qualified scientists say could you do this if given the chance the answer is like
probably give us enough time the bright team and resources like still give us enough time and a bright team and enough resources in the computing power of the Borg and yeah we can figure out the genome sure no problem
give us all the data from all the babies to be born in the next 20 years
give us enough computing power to shove an AI shove it up an AI is backside and yeah we can probably do it but these are forward looking statements so they may not be accurate
that's the basic way to summarize this is the basic way to summarize the WEF pitch the the food conferences pitch the TED talks that we see all the time it's all the same nonsense
it's all these people saying that if they had enough data and they had enough computers and they had enough iPhones on enough people or enough eyewatches on enough people or enough skin
skin detectors in enough people that we would gather enough data that eventually an AI would crack the puzzle
it is absolutely no different than saying that if the AI plays enough go games it becomes a go master except this isn't go or chess
it's a pattern integrity that lives between 80 and 100 years
whose internal metabolic pathways and interactions are at best rudimentary understood
the arrogance that's on display here and and quite frankly the submission that's on display here is really gross
because Huberman I thought had a little more respect for the sacredness of the brain for the most unlockable secrets that are probably in the brain
and the idea that the the emergent properties of a pattern integrity are the hardest things to understand and the emergent properties are life
the emergent property is behavior the emergent property is consciousness and so to understand the emergent properties of a pattern integrity you can't be a splitter
and take it into part all all its little parts and try to understand all the little details of all the little parts and then think at some point if you understand enough of those details
that you're going to understand how they sum together because that's not how this works we may never be able to understand how it sums together
and we're certainly not going to understand how it sums together if the observations that we're making are made on a population that's completely messed up and destroyed by toxins
and by poisons and lack of proper physical behavior what are we going to really learn about the potential of the human genome if we study a bunch of people that are fat lazy and malnourished
never mind if we study people that are 20 years fat lazy and malnourished what do we really understand what are we going to understand about the human genomes capabilities and possibilities when we study that
what would we really learn about automobiles if we only went to use car lots
what would we really know about dogs if the only thing we ever studied were I don't know I mean that's that's the best one what would we know about cars if we only went to use car lots
would we really figure out a lot about how cars work we went to a junkyard
no matter how much data we gathered from a junkyard would we really understand how a car works
and so you have to also see that from that perspective that this population is kind of useless
except for with regard to like understanding how RNA gets translated or how RNA might work maybe we need a lot of examples of that maybe that's what they're doing
but I mean if they're not going to start with let's make the population as healthy as possible before we start measuring what the genome does that's pretty stupid
but that shows you really what we're dealing with here shows you what kind of bamboozlement what kind of snake oil this is
there's people waving their hand and talking big smack about large language models being able to solve the problem of the biological pattern integrity that is a human
there is no reverence for the sacred here there's no married couple here these are not two people in love these are two people lying
as part of a governance structure to control the world but more specifically the United States
we are under the control of liars
and we've been under control of liars since before the pandemic but now the pandemic has made it obvious
yeah I mean it's a 10 to 15 year project yeah but it's it's awesome engineered cells yeah I love the optimism and and the moment you said make the cell the microscope so sweet I was like yes yes and yes it just makes so much sense
how does it make sense Huberman explain to me how that works make the cell the microscope
I mean that's just that's part of it it sounds like such a great idea you know but I mean he's smart enough to know that that doesn't make any sense he's smart enough to know to ask one question better than that like how does the cell report it back how do you read it out for example the the example that you gave you send it to the coronary artery to find if there's a plaque how does the how does the immune system
report back to you and tell you that there is a plaque there is that a hard question to ask is that not the most obvious question after someone brags like that after someone lays out this ridiculously cool idea like I'm going to reprogram an immune cell to be a to be a little spy for me and to go into immune privilege places and come back and tell me what it found and you don't even at least have the biological background Dr. Huberman to ask her a follow up question exactly what it's going to do with it.
Exactly how does that work is it a B cell it is a T cell a macrophage what are you sending up there in a scene of Phil.
I really liked this guy until this interview.
I really liked a lot of things he has to say about motivation and effort and stoicism and exercise and nutrition and sleep.
It was all of that stuff that really fundamentally good biology on you to be just selling it all down the river because of these two rich head celebrities.
It is absolutely pathetic I'm ashamed of him.
It is a very interesting decision to do this in the context of an existing framework of graduate students that need to do a thesis and get a first author paper.
There is a whole set of structures within academia that I think both facilitate but also limit the progression of science that independent investigator model that we talked about a little bit earlier.
It is so core to the way science has been done this is very different and frankly sounds far more efficient if I'm to be completely honest and you know we'll see if I renew my NIH funding after saying that.
But I think we all want the same thing we all want to as scientists and most ways science.
That independent investigator model that we talked about a little bit earlier it is so core to the way science has been done this is very different and frankly sounds far more efficient if I'm to be completely honest and you know we'll see if I renew my NIH funding after saying that.
How is it far more efficient to have to not have individuals thinking what does he think of himself if he says that far more efficient to do what to.
To organize people around around money how is this any more efficient than what the NIH does.
Just individuals versus groups all behaving the same way then.
Let's get even more people together thinking the same with the same biases as they investigate a scientific problem.
You see how stupid that sounds.
Rather than having independent investigators working tirelessly against and competing with one another.
Essentially checking each other's work to try and make that experiment happen first or that discovery first.
Trying to undermine each other to make sure that that person is lying and not lying or not falsely misrepresenting his results.
There's a lot to be gained by independent science and independent labs and independent principal investigators.
That gets lost when you say let's all write a grant together under the pretense that we're all interested in the same goal and answering the same questions and getting the same answer.
That's the kind of thing they're laughing about right now it's not a more efficient system.
It's a more efficient system to get people to think the same way but it's a far less efficient system if you want to get people to explore novel hypotheses
and steer away from a consensus that's created by rich people who don't know enough.
Let's discuss.
We all want the same thing we all want as scientists and as humans we want to understand the way we work and we want healthy people to persist to be healthy and we want sick people to get healthy.
That's really ultimately the goal it's not super complicated it's just hard to do.
So the teams at the Biohub are actually independent of the universities so each Biohub will probably have in total maybe 50 people working on sort of deep efforts.
However it's an acknowledgement that not all the best scientists who can contribute to this area are actually going to one want to leave a university or want to take on the full-time scope of this project.
So it's the ability to partner with universities and to have the faculty at all the universities be able to contribute to the overall project is how the Biohub is structured.
Got it.
But a lot of the way that we're approaching CZI is this long-term iterative project to try a bunch of different things, figure out which things produce the most interesting results and then double down on those in the next five-year push.
So we just went through this period where we kind of wrapped up the first five years of the science program.
We tried a lot of different models right all kinds of different things and it's not that the Biohub model.
We don't think it's like the best or only model but we found that it was sort of a really interesting way to unlock a bunch of collaboration and bring some technical resources that allow for this longer-term development.
And it's not something that is widely being pursued across the rest of the field.
We figured, okay, this is like an interesting thing that we can help push on.
But I mean, yeah, we do believe in the collaboration.
But I also think that we come at this with, you know, we don't think that the way that we're pursuing this is like the only way to do this or the way that everyone should do it.
We're pretty aware of, you know, that, you know, what is the rest of the ecosystem and how we can play a unique role in it.
It feels very synergistic with the wayside.
It's noticed that he has carnival hands, he has little tiny hands, little carny hands.
That's why he keeps them on his lap because they're so tiny.
Little tiny hands with no calluses and no fingernails, like one thin layer of skin, right?
Because he's never actually had any friction, except for with keyboard keys.
It's already done and also fills in incredibly important niche that frankly wasn't filled before.
Along the lines of implementation.
So let's say your large language models combined with imaging tools reveal that a particular set of genes acting in a cluster, I don't know, set up an organ crash.
Let's say the pancreas crashes at a particular stage of pancreatic cancer.
I mean, still one of the most deadlies of the cancers and there are others that you certainly wouldn't want to get.
But that's among the ones you wouldn't want to get the most.
And then the idea is that, okay, then AI reveals some potential drug targets, then bare out in vitro, in a dish and in a mouse model.
How is the actual implementation to drug discovery?
Or maybe this target is druggable, maybe it's not, maybe it requires some other approach.
So here is Huberman again, playing into the product discovery idea of this model instead of the, how do we figure out how to make people optimally healthy?
Not one single discussion about nutrition at baseline health.
We are talking about curing diseases, not about making people healthy.
We like people just the way they are.
Because they've got plenty of problems and plenty of potential for profit.
So we're not interested in improving people.
We're interested in improving the way that we cure people, the way that we treat people, the way that we extract wealth from people.
We are interested in increasing the amount of time that we need to interact with them medically so that we can extract as much data from their children as possible in the coming generations.
There aren't going to be 10 billion on people on the planet forever, ladies and gentlemen, and these people know it.
Because these people are part of a group of people that has a plan to make sure that in the coming generations there aren't 10 billion people anymore.
That's why these same people aren't telling you that our population in pyramid is almost inverted now.
That's why these same people aren't talking about Japan's population pyramid or China's population pyramid and what that means in 50 years for the population of the planet.
None of them actually want to tell you that they know already the demographics of the planet are going to crash.
And they know the consequences of that are going to be severe.
And that they're going to be able to use all kinds of the problems that are caused by this demographic crash, this change in resources.
They're going to be able to use that to coerce our children into accepting digital ID because they will already by then have accepted digital currency.
And so by that time it will be a salesman pitch of convenience.
I mean, if you've got to carry your digital money around in a little wallet like this, wouldn't it be better to have it on a ring?
And then people can steal your ring when you're in the shower.
So maybe you should just, you know, put it around your neck and it'll be waterproof.
Or maybe we'll just put it under your skin right here by your watch.
And then no one can ever steal it. No one can ever fake it. No one can ever.
And we will let you use it on the Internet too.
So you'll have a sovereign identity on the Internet that will interface with your bank account.
And we'll have all your medical data on it. It'll be so convenient.
And that way you won't have to have paperwork and passports and all this other stuff.
And you can just travel wherever you want if you have the approved numbers.
It's all convenient and safe.
Because your children are going to be brainwashed into being afraid of anonymous people on the Internet.
Your kids are going to be tortured and harassed by anonymous people on the Internet until you beg for ID on the Internet.
People's money and banks are going to be contorted and destroyed until people beg for digital currency.
They're already talking about a universal basic income in Canada.
And they're already talking about a universal basic income in the Netherlands.
The craziest part about that is that I have this cousin over in the Netherlands who has been totally on board
with everything that I've been saying since the beginning of the pandemic.
And suddenly, suddenly, that person is now actively campaigning for a universal basic income in the Netherlands.
Like, I couldn't even believe it.
After all this time, thinking that he understood exactly what we were up against, he is now on television as part of a political party advocating for universal basic income in the Netherlands.
Where that entire society is being torn apart by immigrants and the concessions being made to immigrants and not being made to Dutch citizens, it's extraordinary.
A country, a quarter of the size of Pennsylvania was 17 million people in it, accepting thousands of refugees a year.
Is looking to start universal basic income. If one EU country starts universal basic income, where does that go?
How does that work in a union like that?
They are all lost.
And we are almost lost.
Because we are being governed by people who are not elected.
We are being governed by weaponized piles of money like Black Rock State Street, etc.
And the people who sit atop those weaponized piles of money like Elon Musk and Peter Teal, Mark Zuckerberg and Priscilla Chan, Bill and Melinda Gates.
These weaponized piles of money also include weaponized piles of money in government.
That's for sure.
But we are pivoting, ladies and gentlemen, we are pivoting to the private weaponized piles of money.
We are cau-towing to them. The US government cau-tows to those weaponized piles of money.
The Saudis, the Israelis, the private banks, the central banks, the world bank, the international bank of settlements.
These are all groups of people with more power than our government, because they control our government.
And so we all need to wake up and apologize for having been asleep at the wheel and for losing control of our nation.
And now we need to put our big boy pants on and take our nation back.
From people that are liars, it should be very easy because they are just liars.
That's all they are liars.
Liars liars liars. And the liars have worked on one thing in particular.
They've worked on an illusion of consensus about pandemic potential.
And Zuckerberg and Chan, they agree fully with this pandemic potential.
They agree that the millions were killed by the virus.
They agree that the mRNA saved people. They won't question any of that, of course.
And so they are a part of this illusion of consensus.
Just the fact that they had that podcast about biology and public health
and had no mention of a pandemic or the vaccines, except to say that as Mark said,
we had to have vaccines before we could cure things.
This illusion of consensus that this immunomythology makes any sense.
This is all part of that.
And so I've explained this many times.
They've declared a dangerous novel virus detectable by a PCR test.
But I think it's important that we think about it this way.
If there was a mystery virus that is encoded by that red curve down here,
we need to do some math on that.
And I think that all of the liars in this theater do not do this math.
So if you want to know what the real total excess deaths that the mystery virus caused,
you need to take and figure out what the excess deaths are here as a total.
And then from that total subtract the following.
You need to subtract all the people that were killed in New York City, not by a virus,
including do not resuscitate orders.
And everywhere around the United States in the world where that was done because of a deadly virus that they didn't want to spread.
You need to subtract from that all the people that were ventilated that shouldn't have been ventilated.
You need to subtract to them that all of the people that didn't get antibiotics that should have gotten antibiotics.
You need to subtract from that all of the people who were either given steroids inappropriately or not given steroids when they were appropriate.
You need to subtract all of the extra opioid deaths from this excess because everybody that dies of an opioid death is not an expected death.
Those are excess deaths.
We don't expect 150,000 people to die of opioid deaths and that's not figured into this blue line over here.
The change from this pattern that you see year on year on year, this change right here cannot be understood as a pandemic until you remove all of these things and everything else included there.
In order to understand where this excess deaths came from.
And the curious thing about Denny Rancor's data which is most powerful with regard to this list is that the deaths from COVID in the United States correlate with poverty.
You know what else correlates with poverty?
Bad treatment in the hospitals.
You know what else correlates with poverty? Opioid deaths.
And yet they want you to believe that a million people were killed by viruses. Everything else is just normal.
And that's the lie.
That's the lie that everybody's telling.
And it's quite frankly the lie that everybody tells when they say that there's DNA in the shots and so the adulteration is there and therefore we can sue them.
Why is that the case?
It's a lie because we should never have had the shots in the first place because of this list.
This list is the reason why we have the shot.
So the shots contaminated big deal.
We should have never had the shot if any of you idiots would have spoke up when you should have instead of now about the DNA.
But you had spoke up in the beginning.
When we knew they were lying we just didn't know how badly.
None of this would have happened.
If Robert Malone would have pulled his head out in 2020 none of this would have happened.
If Steve Kirsch would have pulled his head out in 2020 none of this would have happened.
If Brett Weinstein would have pulled his head out maybe none of this would have happened but none of those people that are now leaders of this movement will speak about this list and do this math correctly.
Every one of those people says that a million people were killed by a virus.
None of those people will do this math and that's why they are liars.
And if you're going to focus on the DNA and the shot at least admit that the shot should have never come out in the first place and wouldn't have come out in the first place had they not done these things.
Had they not allowed the opioid deaths to go skyrocketing in the United States there wouldn't have been enough excess deaths to make a stink over.
If they wouldn't have put enough people on ventilators or stop the use of antibiotics or stop the use of steroids correctly or implemented the use of remdesivir everywhere there wouldn't have been enough excess deaths to blame on anything.
There wouldn't be any of that there wouldn't be this part of the graph here.
And the reason why is because if you subtract all of these things it goes right back to this seasonal pattern of between 50 and 60,000 deaths per week.
The only reason why it's shot up for four weeks in America is because of New York City and a few other places.
And the only reason why it's shot up in the next winter is because of these things.
Because of the use of a PCR test to convert what would have been just pneumonia and a respiratory disease to something that they knew how to treat incorrectly and had a million different ways of doing it.
And the fact of the matter is is that most people can't tell the whole story.
They never bothered to.
And now that's what you see in spades with this DNA adulteration.
They're going to try and pretend the transfection wasn't bad it was the DNA and we know this story already because we did it with spike.
We did it with RNA impurities and then we did it with the LNP.
This is the way it should have been.
And nobody's doing this math because they don't want to admit that there is no excuse.
They only excuses were manufactured.
The only excuses were fear uncertainty and doubt that drove people to do really stupid things for three years.
And I went to a doctor's office today and half the people were wearing masks so this has driven people to do stupid things for three and a half years.
People are still confused, still in fear, still frustrated, still having doubts because of the effectiveness of these lies.
Because of the effectiveness of this illusion of consensus because of the effectiveness of these liars.
Because of the lack of integrity of these liars.
They created an illusion of consensus about a mystery that didn't need to be solved and that illusion of consensus created confusion that led us to believe we didn't understand what was going on.
And because we didn't understand what was going on doctors followed all kinds of orders they never would have and behaved in ways they never would have had they not been thoroughly lied to.
And now I'm not giving doctors on out I'm telling you right now I think every doctor that's going along with this is an idiot.
But I also have faith that those people when they figure it out they'll actually realize well I wasn't an idiot just like I was.
Just like you got to tell somebody when they're overweight you got to tell people when they're idiots.
And some of these these people need to be told that your assumption is that the TV doesn't lie.
Your assumption is that trillions of dollars won't make people behave badly.
Your assumption is is that power doesn't corrupt.
That's the assumption that every skilled TV watcher has now been bamboozled into making.
Money doesn't corrupt power doesn't corrupt.
There's no incentive to lie and that people would not use lies to govern a world.
A planet.
But these same people sit on their couch and they know damn well they're being governed.
They know damn well they're being governed.
They think that Trump lies they think the Democrats lie they think the Republicans lie.
It's all a great big show it's an illusion of consensus that makes you believe there's nothing to solve.
The way it worked was really simple.
They told you there was a lab leak and then they told you it spread around and at the same time they argued about it.
They lied about it.
They sent emails about it and then redacted the emails.
They kept telling you that new variants were circulating as almicron now.
Maybe it was released by a good guy to vaccinate the world.
And now we hear our whatever variant we are now.
In this scenario of course we color the yellow red because the lockdowns hurt some people but it's a gain of function virus.
In this scenario we've defeated epidemics in the past using vaccination and there's an illusion of consensus about that.
There's an illusion of consensus about pandemic potential and an illusion of consensus about rare false positives with PCR.
An illusion of consensus about variants and the fact that the virus might be mutating in response to the RNA because it works so well.
And gain of function research is real.
The faith is a lie.
They've used a conflated background signal to trick people into killing each other and ignoring it.
It's a mythology that we are being governed by and the protocols were murder and transfection is not medicine.
I believe the best description is probably an infectious clone release.
It's the simplest one in my mind.
But it could have been a transfection with a different agent in different places.
I don't know with that background.
I do know for sure that this is not the right answer.
And I do know for sure that the players are not addressing these things.
I don't know I feel like I'm kind of ending on a weak note but I'm tired and I'm annoyed.
And I didn't think I would get so annoyed by Zuckerberg and Chan.
I thought it was going to be funnier.
But I guess I'm getting more and more insulted by the lack of reverence, the lack of humbleness.
And it's a bit like, I don't know, it's hard for me to explain really how sad that kind of thought process makes me.
It's a little bit of arrogance and a little bit of naivety and it's a lot of lying.
Because I know that they know that they're also lying.
They're deceiving children.
They're deceiving people who aren't sophisticated enough to know they're being deceived.
And they're doing it happily as part of the group of people that governs us.
That's why there's a picture of Zuckerberg and all these other people having a dinner right before Obama is elected.
Toasting glasses.
We are being governed by these people.
They are working together behind the scenes to govern us with lies.
And they may even be controlling our government with these lies.
Because the people in our government for the most part aren't that bright.
I think that was one thing that you can take to the bank now.
For every Thomas Massey there's about 500 people that are idiots.
So these are the easiest kinds of people to control.
The people in our government now are the most ridiculous jokes.
It's a big clown show and that's what they wanted.
Because this is a controlled demolition of America.
It's going to get worse.
There are going to be more clowns in government.
There's going to be more clowning in government.
No matter what happens in 2024 it's going to be clowning.
There's a few different scenarios but they're all clowning.
This is where we're at.
This is where they're going.
And if you want to escape you just got to learn the biology that underpins this.
Understand what transfection is and why it's not immunization and understand why actually
the intramuscular injection of pretty much anything is dumb.
If you're trying to augment the immune system of a healthy human.
Please stop all transfections in humans and they are trying to eliminate the control group by any means necessary.
So Mike Vandenberg mixed date.
Didn't I put that one up there? I thought I put this one up there.
That's what I thought I put up there. Sorry about that.
I did that last night too.
I don't know. I feel like I kind of blew it on this one because I got so negative.
So I apologize for that.
It's been a long day.
And I'm very happy to say that I've had more energy today than I've had in a long, long time.
Two nights in a row of sleeping has been miracle.
And so I have pretty high hopes that this energy is going to keep building.
So let me give the cords a rest and I'll see you guys again tomorrow.
And there it is, right? That's the alpha fold nonsense that they made and told everybody that now we know how old proteins
fold.
Don't forget to follow that Jeff from Earth link that he puts in there every night.
Jeff from Earth is one of my best supporters, my longest supporters.
And he makes Instagram cuts of my streams and they're always really good.
And he's been doing it for a long time. For goodness sakes, please share that dude's work and spread it around.
Because those shorts are probably a lot of times better than three hour shares.
So anyway, thanks guys. I'll see you guys again tomorrow.